Lionel work ex 4 (#24)
mitre/fhir-exercises: Exercise_4/docs/part-3.md

Many healthcare contexts therefore require extensive local agreements.

!!! note "How FHIR® Adapts to the Diverse Array of Healthcare Data Requirements"
    By its nature, FHIR® is designed to be both as comprehensive and expandable as possible to cover the widest range of health-related modalities. Its extensibility is a critical enabler for bringing in the widest possible array of potential use-cases and stakeholders into an interoperable health IT framework.

The result of this, however, is that the potential exists for two health IT systems, **even when both are on the FHIR® standard, to have vastly divergent sets of information available.** Because of this, there exists a need for FHIR® standard guidelines that define the precise implementations of FHIR® a specific health IT system has deployed and supports. These guides have been formalized in FHIR® as **Implementations Guides (IG)**.

>An IG is a set of rules about how FHIR® resources are used (or should be used) to solve a particular problem, with associated documentation to support and clarify the usage.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Source: http://hl7.org/fhir/implementationguide.html

```

    * In particular, validators are able to use the `CapabilityStatement` resource to validate content against the IG as a whole. The capability statement is a key part of the overall conformance framework in FHIR. It is used as a statement of the features of actual software, or of a set of rules for an application to provide. This statement connects to all the detailed statements of functionality, such as StructureDefinitions and ValueSets. This composite statement of application capability may be used for system compatibility testing, code generation, or as the basis for a conformance assessment. For further information about Conformance testing, see Conformance Rules and Profiling FHIR.
    More on this resource here: [https://build.fhir.org/capabilitystatement.html](https://build.fhir.org/capabilitystatement.html) 

    * FHIR® contains an official registry of IG available here: [http://registry.fhir.org/](http://registry.fhir.org/)

It should also be noted that while individual organizations and entities can develop their own IG, the development process should also be guided and supported by the HL7 community.

## US Core 

> So, if there are a variety of IGs available for FHIR® implementation, is there a particular one that maps to the USCDI data standard, one whose adoption would ensure that an EHR system fully met Promoting Interoperability guidelines?
> 
> > Yes! The US Core IG does exactly that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a variety of IGs available for FHIR® implementation. The US Core IG maps to the USCDI data standard, to help EHR systems meet Promoting Interoperability guidelines.
```

Some of the regulatory guidance and requirements fall outside the scope of US Core so I removed `fully`. I also changed this to be a statement instead of a question since it's not wrapped in a knowledge check, nor would it make sense as a knowledge check since this is the first time the content is covered.

> The US Core IG is based on FHIR® Version R4 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current, as of writing, version of the US Core IG (5.0.0) is based on FHIR® Version R4.
```

It's important to clarify the US Core version here since earlier versions were based on different versions of FHIR and in the future this may change again.

    * US Core CareTeam Profile
    * US Core Condition Profile
    * US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Laboratory Results Reporting
    * US Core DiagnosticReport Profile for Report and Note exchange
    * US Core DocumentReference Profile
    * US Core Encounter Profile
    * US Core Goal Profile
    * US Core Head Circumference Profile
    * US Core Heart Rate Profile
    * US Core Immunization Profile
    * US Core Implantable Device Profile
    * US Core Laboratory Result Observation Profile
    * US Core Location Profile
    * US Core Medication Profile
    * US Core MedicationRequest Profile
    * US Core Organization Profile
    * US Core Patient Profile
    * US Core Pediatric BMI for Age Observation Profile
    * US Core Pediatric Head Occipital-frontal Circumference Percentile Profile
    * US Core Pediatric Weight for Height Observation Profile
    * US Core Practitioner Profile
    * US Core PractitionerRole Profile
    * US Core Procedure Profile
    * US Core Provenance Profile
    * US Core Pulse Oximetry Profile
    * US Core Respiratory Rate Profile
    * **US Core Smoking Status Observation Profile**
    * US Core Vital Signs Profile

> Looking at the complete list of US Core Profiles one might notice that **SMOKING STATUS** again! It was in the EHR data we saw, and it was in the USCDI criteria... we’ll revisit this example soon...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at the complete list of US Core Profiles one might notice **Smoking Status** again. It was in the EHR data we saw, and it was in the USCDI criteria. We'll revisit this example soon.
```

??? question "Knowledge Check: Which element(s) of this profile must be supported in order to be US Core Compliant?"
    `Medication.code` element

Going back to our **smoking example** take a look here: [http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU5/StructureDefinition-us-core-smokingstatus.html#mandatory-and-must-support-data-elements](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU5/StructureDefinition-us-core-smokingstatus.html#mandatory-and-must-support-data-elements){target=_blank}

![Smoking core profile part 1](img/smokingcore1.png)
![Smoking core profile part 2](img/smokingcore2.png)

We can see here a list of required elements this profile must support.

??? question "Knowledge Check: How many elements are required and what are they?"
    7 required elements. They include a `status`, a category slice, and then a specific category code of `social-history`, a code for smoking observation, a patient, when the observation occurred, a result value code for smoking status

??? question "Knowledge Check: Where would I find the reference ID of the patient?"

>     `Subject code`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `Observation.subject`
```

I'm not sure what you mean by `code` here.

> Let’s take a look at the raw unformatted **JSON code** for the resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s take a look at the raw **JSON** for the resource:
```

> ??? example "Sample JSON code of the Smoking Resource"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "Sample JSON of the Smoking Status Resource"
```

    ```JSON
    {
    "resourceType": "Observation",
    "id": "056f4fe8-cd0a-db01-9d8b-0b3bf098368c",
    "meta": {
        "profile": [ "http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/StructureDefinition/us-core-smokingstatus" ]

>     },

Reviewer: Do you have a source for this example?

Author: Adding one!

    "status": "final",
    "category": [{
        "coding": [{
            "system": "http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/observation-category",
            "code": "social-history",
            "display": "social-history"
        }]
    }],
    "code": {
        "coding": [{
        "system": "http://loinc.org",
        "code": "72166-2",
        "display": "Tobacco smoking status NHIS"
        }],
        "text": "Tobacco smoking status NHIS"
    },
    "subject": { "reference": "urn:uuid:c37a6b5c-a13c-835d-bfe2-e215df91cb3c" },
    "encounter": { "reference": "urn:uuid:0f7f8554-0896-65dd-7bed-fe85762791dd" },
    "effectiveDateTime": "2012-07-25T10:07:28-04:00",
    "issued": "2012-07-25T10:07:28.029-04:00",
    "valueCodeableConcept": {
        "coding": [{
        "system": "http://snomed.info/sct",
        "code": "266919005",
        "display": "Never smoker"
        }],
        "text": "Never smoker"
    }
    }
    ```

> Check out this patient profile here: HL7.FHIR.US.CORE\Some Day Smoker Example - JSON Representation [http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU5/Observation-some-day-smoker.json.html](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU5/Observation-some-day-smoker.json.html){target=_blank}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See another example of a Smoking Status Observation here: [http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU5/Observation-some-day-smoker.json.html](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU5/Observation-some-day-smoker.json.html){target=_blank}
```

It's confusing to call this a patient profile since that has a real and different meaning in FHIR.

Reviewer: Should this be linking to the same example as above and just say `Source: `

Link here: [http://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/US-Core/StructureDefinition-us-core-smokingstatus.html](http://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/US-Core/StructureDefinition-us-core-smokingstatus.html){target=_blank}

??? question "Knowledge Check: When was this observation taken?"

>     July 25, 2012

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    March 18, 2012
```

Should this be March 18?

Reviewer: Ah I see where I got confused. This question is expecting you to be referencing the example in the collapsible element and not the link. It wasn't obvious to me initially that these referred to different resources.
